We'll come back in this quick We'll look at the different new features which were introduced in different
ways.
So if Joe thing is most of these new features which we had going to see in this particular video we
have already discussed then just during the course completely but this is more to consolidate them and
for you to be able to understand what are the features which would introduce a specific question of
Jawa.
So we will not discuss them in detail.
I would really request you to go and look at that specific video if you are interested in understanding
that feature complicite.
The idea is to just have a list of features right here.
Let's get started.
We'll start with Java 5 because that was one of the words of Job.
There were a lot of new things that were introduced.
One of the main features which is missing in this list which was introduced in our fight is annotations
I love and additions and additions is one of the biggest programming changes for me and Jolliffe I was
where they were introduced.
Other than that the other important thing to share introduced in our Fe are generics.
We discuss about generics.
We looked at a few examples of enhanced for loop as well.
We looked at auto boxing.
We looked at where the oral arguments and static input is.
The other thing which was introduced in Java.
So if you're using a static function then you can directly import that specific thing and use the function
directly without specifying the class name that makes it more easy or more d'accord more readable.
So that's another feature which was introduced in Java 5.
The other important feature which was introduced in Java five of these concurrent connections we have
until Java 5.
The only way which was present to create multithreaded programs was to use the synchronized keyword
in Java fight there are new approaches to copy and write components of app which are implemented and
there are new concurrent collections which came in with these approaches.
Will this cause a lot of them in the advanced collections section.
The other thing which we look at during the threads was lock.
So we looked at reentrant lock and we used locks in that specific to implement synchronization in somebody.
The most important features which are implemented in Java Fae are which came in in Java fi where in
to generics enhanced for loops.
Static imports come in collections and locks.
Let's move the Java 6 Jocic So what's not really a huge change in terms of the API.
There were a few changes but they were very minor and there were a few performance improvement but I
doubt if any of them are so significant that they deserve a mention here.
So it's more like where the few important genius aspect of jealous jealousy when I again had a little
bit more genius then Jawa six.
So one of the important changes which was introduced in Java 7 was the diamond operator.
So earlier we went what we wanted to create a map for example like this.
I had to specify this in both places.
So I had to specify string list of thread here and also here.
So I had to specify it in two places.
But with the diamond operator or with what is called the Diamond operator.
Now you don't need just betrayed that duplicious So it's OK if I spent no specified the type of the
things which are in the maps.
This map is a map of with a key string and values that's list of the grid.
In the earlier versions of Jalla I had to specify in here I want to create a tree map with a string
and the values as list of grid.
So I had to specify that here as well but with jealousy.
You don't need to do that anymore.
The other important thing which came in in Java 7 is you can use switch around strings as well until
Java 6.
The only things which you can use to switch around are numbers and also names.
But with Jawa 7 we can also use switch statement on strings.
And the other important feature which we already discussed during exception handling section is the
PRI Gach private resources.
So this is what is called Try with the resources by some people.
It's basically you try around the and create the resource which you want to be managed directly in here.
So you put your task at to try and put whichever resources you would want to manage in here.
This is the example for private research is that we leave a bit earlier.
So you are reading directly the buffered reader in here and we also discuss that with the resources
is possible because Bufford leader implements the auto plausible interface so it implements the order
plausible interface with the close function.
So the buffered reader defines the function so we know what the operation complete whether there's an
exception or not.
Indefinably the order close would be called to close the file reader.
The other feature which was introduced in July 7 is new literals with underscored.
So basically what this means I can create inti just like this.
So instead of saying Just thousand I can just say one underskirt thousand if I wanted to create a million
them you can do something of this kind.
So you can create numerical literals with underscores so that they are more readable.
Obviously improved exception handling.
We've already looked at breakage and drive with resources.
The other exception which is the exception handling which is introduced is handling multiple exceptions
in the same block.
So you can catch exception one exception two exception three in the same block.
So you don't need to write duplicate the code again and again in all these three blocks.
So those are at a high level the important features in Joe 7 diamond operators string in which private
resources mandibles exception handling numerical literals with underscores.
OK for me Java 8 is one of the biggest releases of Java.
I think if I really order reasons in terms of the importance I think the first years of Java is the
most important one because that is the one which brought in Java but platform independent and all that
good Object-Oriented features.
The second important release for me is Java 5 because it brought in my favorite feature in Java which
is annotations.
The third important release for me is Java 8 and Jalla aid brought in a lot of functional programming
concepts.
Lang lambda expressions streams these are going to change how we do programming especially especially
the functional programming concepts would change how we think and how we think what is possible.
The other important change which gave me in Java 8 is Nashar.
That's basically a javascript engine.
That's a new javascript engine to run javascript on the JVM.
There was an earlier javascript engine to run javascript in Java 7 and stuff but naturalist's highly
performant compared to the earlier versions.
The most important thing in Java.
A dysfunctional programming and we have a separate section on functional programming with lambda expressions
and streams.
In this way do we look bad.
What are the important features at a high level in Java 5 6 7 and Jawa.
So there you go.
Those are the new features that we wanted to talk about.